<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:spec:learning:rng:learningPlan.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<learningPlan id="introduction_learning_plan">
    <title>Learning Plan</title>
    <shortdesc>Learning plan for an introductory lesson on ontologies and semantic data
        modeling.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>               
        <critdates>
            <revised modified="2023-05-04"/>            
            <!--timothy.thompson@yale.edu-->
            <revised modified="2023-05-04"/>
            <!--timothy.thompson@yale.edu-->
            <revised modified="2023-05-30"/>
        </critdates>
        <lcLom>
            <lomTypicalLearningTime name="minutes" value="30">30 minutes</lomTypicalLearningTime>
        </lcLom>
    </prolog>
    <learningPlanbody>
        <lcProject>
            <title><ph keyref="project-title"/></title>
            <lcClient>
                <p><ph keyref="client"/></p>
            </lcClient>
            <lcPlanTitle>
                <p>Introduction to Ontologies and Competency Questions</p>
            </lcPlanTitle>
            <lcDelivDate>
                <p>May 10, 2023</p>
            </lcDelivDate>
            <lcPlanSubject>
                <p>Semantic model definition using structures provided by the RDF Schema
                    standard.</p>
            </lcPlanSubject>
            <lcPlanDescrip>
                <p>In this lession, participants will be challenged to apply RDF Schema (RDFS)
                    concepts to the task of developing a domain model for library resources.
                    Participants will be introduced to the concept of applied ontology and will
                    complete activities focused on knowledge organization and representation.</p>
            </lcPlanDescrip>
            <lcPlanPrereqs>
                <p>Attendees will have understood the basics of the RDF model and syntax and RDFS
                    concepts such as Resource, Class, Property, and Literal.</p>
            </lcPlanPrereqs>
        </lcProject>              
        <lcIntervention>
            <title>Instruction and Activities</title>
            <lcInterventionItem>
                <lcLearnStrat>Gain learner attention and provide motivation for the topic of
                    ontologies and why they are relevant in the context of library metadata. </lcLearnStrat>
                <lcPlanObjective>Define what an ontology is and given concrete examples. Prepare
                    learners for hands-on activities.</lcPlanObjective>
                <lcAssessment>Brief comprehension quiz.</lcAssessment>
                <lcDelivery>Lecture format. Define what an ontology is, provide examples, and
                    introduce the idea of competency questions in the context of domain modeling
                    methodology.</lcDelivery>
            </lcInterventionItem>
            <lcInterventionItem>
                <lcLearnStrat>Participants will use inductive reasoning to develop a set of
                    competency questions  for a domain ontology about library information
                    resources.</lcLearnStrat>
                <lcPlanObjective>Define the scope and requirements of the ontology and identify key
                    concepts and terminology.</lcPlanObjective>
                <lcAssessment>The activity will be assessed through group discussion and
                    reflection.</lcAssessment>
                <lcDelivery>Participants will work in groups of four to five people. They will
                    brainstorm competency questions, write them on Post-it notes, and organize the
                    questions into meaningful groups.</lcDelivery>
            </lcInterventionItem>
        </lcIntervention>
        
    </learningPlanbody>
</learningPlan>
