<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:spec:learning:rng:learningContent.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<learningContent id="snow_white_problem">
    <title>ChatGPT: Limits and Possbilities</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <created date="2023-06-04"/>
            <!--timothy.thompson@yale.edu-->
            <revised modified="2023-05-08"/>
            <!--timothy.thompson@yale.edu-->
            <revised modified="2023-05-09"/>
            <!--timothy.thompson@yale.edu-->
            <revised modified="2023-06-04"/>
        </critdates>
    </prolog>
    <learningContentbody>
        <lcInstruction>
            <fig conkeyref="figures-key/fig_esb_sn3_kxb"/>
            <lcInstructornote2>
                <p>For this topic, the instructor should have access to the ChatGPT user interface
                    and be ready to demonstrate the <xref keyref="snow-white-problem">Issue</xref>
                    described in the blog post by Oxford Semantic Technologies.</p>
                <p>As of June 5, 2023, the issue is still present in GPT-3.5. In response to the
                    prompt "Which was the first feature-length animated film?" the model provides
                    the following answer:</p>
                <p><lq>The first feature-length animated film is "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs,"
                        released in 1937. It was produced by Walt Disney Productions and was based
                        on the German fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm. "Snow White and the Seven
                        Dwarfs" was a groundbreaking achievement in animation, as it was the first
                        full-length cel-animated feature film and the first animated film produced
                        in color. It was a commercial and critical success and paved the way for the
                        development of the animated film industry.</lq></p>
                <p>However, GPT-4.0 provides a much more nuanced response:</p>
                <p>
                    <lq id="lq_g4n_q5x_rxb">
                        <p>The first feature-length animated film is generally recognized as "Snow
                            White and the Seven Dwarfs" by Walt Disney, which was released in 1937. </p>
                        <p>However, it's worth noting that there were some earlier attempts at
                            creating feature-length animated films. The first one to be created was
                            "El Apóstol" (The Apostle), an Argentine film by Quirino Cristiani
                            released in 1917. Unfortunately, no copies of this film exist today
                            because it was destroyed in a fire. Another feature-length animated film
                            by Cristiani, "Sin dejar rastros" (Without a Trace), was released in
                            1918 but has also been lost. As a result, "Snow White and the Seven
                            Dwarfs" is the earliest feature-length animated film that can still be
                            viewed today.</p>
                    </lq>
                </p>
            </lcInstructornote2>
        </lcInstruction>
    </learningContentbody>
    <learningSummary id="snow_white_problem_summary">
        <title>Summary</title>
        <learningSummarybody>
            <lcReview id="lcReview_f5n_3tx_rxb">
                <p>
                    <ul id="ul_sgj_1vx_rxb">
                        <li>ChatGPT is a large-scale reflection of "common knowledge."</li>
                        <li>It is not necessarily tethered to reality and lacks a stable reference
                            to verified and curated knowledge.</li>
                        <li>Knowledge graphs can complement large language models and be used to
                            "fact check" them.</li>
                    </ul>
                </p>
            </lcReview>
        </learningSummarybody>
    </learningSummary>
</learningContent>
