<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:spec:learning:rng:learningPlan.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<learningPlan id="rdf_continued_learning_plan">
    <title>Learning Plan</title>
    <shortdesc>Learning plan for a lesson focused on next steps with RDF (RDF Schema, Open World
        Assumption, and SPARQL).</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <author type="creator">Timothy Thompson, Yale University</author>
        <author type="creator">timothy.thompson@yale.edu</author>        
        <critdates>
            <revised modified="2023-05-04"/>            
            <!--timothy.thompson@yale.edu-->
            <revised modified="2023-05-04"/>
        </critdates>
        <lcLom>
            <lomTypicalLearningTime name="minutes" value="30">30 minutes</lomTypicalLearningTime>
        </lcLom>
    </prolog>
    <learningPlanbody>
        <lcProject>
            <title><ph keyref="project-title"/></title>
            <lcClient>
                <p><ph keyref="client"/></p>
            </lcClient>
            <lcPlanTitle>
                <p>Next Steps with RDF</p>
            </lcPlanTitle>
            <lcDelivDate>
                <p>May 10, 2023</p>
            </lcDelivDate>
            <lcPlanSubject>
                <p>This lesson will focus on RDF Schema (RDFS), Semantic Web principles, and
                    technologies such as SPARQL and SHACL.</p>
            </lcPlanSubject>
            <lcPlanDescrip>
                <p>In this lession, participants will be introduced to the semantic modeling
                    constructs provided by RDFS (Resource, Class, Property, Literal, etc.). SPARQL
                    queries will be demonstrated, and Semantic Web principles such as the Open World
                    Assumption will be discussed, together with "closed world" solutions such as
                    SHACL.</p>
            </lcPlanDescrip>
            <lcPlanPrereqs>
                <p>As preparation, attendees will have understood the basics of the RDF model and
                    syntax.</p>
            </lcPlanPrereqs>
        </lcProject>              
        <lcIntervention>
            <title>Instruction and Activities</title>
            <lcInterventionItem>
                <lcLearnStrat>This lesson will begin with a technical introduction to RDFS, SPARQL,
                    and the Semantic Web.</lcLearnStrat>
                <lcPlanObjective>The goal of instruction is to prepare learners to begin working
                    with ontologies and semantic data modeling.</lcPlanObjective>
                <lcAssessment>Check for comprehension of content through interactive SPARQL
                    exercises.</lcAssessment>
                <lcDelivery>Content will be delivered in lecture format.</lcDelivery>
            </lcInterventionItem>
            <lcInterventionItem>
                <lcLearnStrat>Participants will have an opportunity to gain hands-on experience
                    running a SPARQL query, although in-depth instruction in SPARQL is out of
                    scope.</lcLearnStrat>
                <lcPlanObjective>By the end of the lesson, learners should be able to identify a
                    SPARQL query and understand how graph patterns are matched in
                    SPARQL.</lcPlanObjective>
                <lcAssessment>The activity will be assessed through feedback from partcipants about
                    their experience with SPARQL.</lcAssessment>
                <lcDelivery>Participants will work individually in a provisioned Google Collab
                    environment within a Jupyter notebook that is connected to a triple
                    store.</lcDelivery>
            </lcInterventionItem>
        </lcIntervention>
        
    </learningPlanbody>
</learningPlan>
