<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:spec:learning:rng:learningPlan.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<learningPlan id="rdf_basics_learning_plan">
    <title>Learning Plan</title>
    <shortdesc>Learning plan for an introductory lesson on the Resource Description Framework
        (RDF).</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <author type="creator">Timothy Thompson, Yale University</author>
        <author type="creator">timothy.thompson@yale.edu</author>        
        <critdates>
            <revised modified="2023-05-04"/>            
            <!--timothy.thompson@yale.edu-->
            <revised modified="2023-05-04"/>
        </critdates>
        <lcLom>
            <lomTypicalLearningTime name="minutes" value="30">30 minutes</lomTypicalLearningTime>
        </lcLom>
    </prolog>
    <learningPlanbody>
        <lcProject>
            <title><ph keyref="project-title"/></title>
            <lcClient>
                <p><ph keyref="client"/></p>
            </lcClient>
            <lcPlanTitle>
                <p>Lesson 1: Introduction to the Resource Description Framework (RDF)</p>
            </lcPlanTitle>
            <lcDelivDate>
                <p>May 10, 2023</p>
            </lcDelivDate>
            <lcPlanSubject>
                <title>Focus</title>
                <p>This lesson will focus on a basic introduction to the RDF model and syntax.</p>
            </lcPlanSubject>
            <lcPlanDescrip>
                <title>Overview</title>
                <p>Participants will gain familiarity with RDF fundamentals: the basic
                    subject-predicate-object syntax of an RDF triple; how triples can be extracted
                    from non-RDF datasources (e.g., spreadsheets); and how triples can be connected
                    in the context of knowledge graphs.</p>
            </lcPlanDescrip>
            <lcPlanPrereqs>
                <title>Prerequisites</title>
                <p>As preparation, participants will have been introduced to the overarching
                    framework of linked open data and its purpose.</p>
            </lcPlanPrereqs>
        </lcProject>              
        <lcIntervention>
            <title>Instruction and Activities</title>
            <lcInterventionItem>
                <lcLearnStrat>This lesson will begin with a technical introduction to RDF and
                    knowledge graphs.</lcLearnStrat>
                <lcPlanObjective>The goal of instruction is for learners to gain a baseline
                    understanding of RDF as a graph-based semantic model. Participants will learn
                    about common RDF serializations and gain exposure to Turtle and JSON-LD in
                    particular.</lcPlanObjective>
                <lcAssessment>Check for comprehension of content through interactive data entry
                    exercises.</lcAssessment>
                <lcDelivery>Content will be delivered in lecture format, combined with excersises
                    done individually.</lcDelivery>
            </lcInterventionItem>
            <lcInterventionItem>
                <lcLearnStrat>A "personal knowledge graph" will be provisioned for each learner, as
                    well as a user interface for learners to enter new statements in their
                    graph.</lcLearnStrat>
                <lcPlanObjective>By the end of this lesson, learners will have a basic level of
                    knowledge about how RDF data is structured and how to work with
                    it.</lcPlanObjective>
                <lcAssessment>After participants have entered a set of statements, the instructor
                    should query the triple store to see whether the exercises where completed
                    successfully. The participant with the most statements added will be
                    congratulated.</lcAssessment>
                <lcDelivery>Particpants will work individually with a bespoke user interface to
                    complete a series of exercises with FOAF to begin populating their personal
                    knowledge graph.</lcDelivery>
            </lcInterventionItem>
        </lcIntervention>
        
    </learningPlanbody>
</learningPlan>
