<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:spec:learning:rng:learningPlan.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<learningPlan id="ontologies_and_competency_questions_learning_plan-Copy">
    <title>Learning Plan</title>
    <shortdesc>Learning plan for an introductory lesson on ontologies and semantic data
        modeling.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <author type="creator">Timothy Thompson, Yale University</author>
        <author type="creator">timothy.thompson@yale.edu</author>
        <critdates>
            <revised modified="2023-05-04"/>
            <!--timothy.thompson@yale.edu-->
            <revised modified="2023-05-04"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>Ontologies
                    <indexterm>Applied ontology</indexterm>
                    <indexterm>Competency questions</indexterm>
                </indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
        <lcLom>
            <lomTypicalLearningTime name="minutes" value="30">30 minutes</lomTypicalLearningTime>
        </lcLom>
    </prolog>
    <learningPlanbody>
        <lcProject>
            <title><ph keyref="project-title"/></title>
            <lcClient>
                <p><ph keyref="client"/></p>
            </lcClient>
            <lcPlanTitle>
                <p>Lesson 4: Introduction to Ontologies and Competency Questions</p>
            </lcPlanTitle>
            <lcDelivDate>
                <p>May 10, 2023</p>
            </lcDelivDate>
            <lcPlanSubject>
                <title>Focus</title>
                <p>This lesson will focus on developing a methodology for defining semantic models.
                    It will incorporate structures provided by the RDF Schema standard.</p>
            </lcPlanSubject>
            <lcPlanDescrip>
                <title>Overview</title>
                <p>In this lession, participants will be challenged to apply RDF Schema (RDFS)
                    concepts to the task of developing a domain model for library information
                    resources. Participants will be introduced to the concept of applied ontology
                    and will be challenged to think holistically about knowledge organization and
                    representation.</p>
            </lcPlanDescrip>
            <lcPlanPrereqs>
                <title>Prerequisites</title>
                <p>As preparation for this lesson, participants will have understood the basics of
                    the RDF model and syntax and RDFS concepts such as Resource, Class, Property,
                    and Literal.</p>
            </lcPlanPrereqs>
        </lcProject>
        <lcIntervention>
            <title>Instruction and Activities</title>
            <lcInterventionItem>
                <lcLearnStrat>Gain learner attention and provide motivation for the topic of
                    ontologies and why they are relevant in the context of library metadata. </lcLearnStrat>
                <lcPlanObjective>The goal of instruction is to define what an ontology is and give
                    concrete examples, while preparing learners for the competency questions
                    activity.</lcPlanObjective>
                <lcAssessment>Check for comprehension of content with a brief quiz.</lcAssessment>
                <lcDelivery>Content will be delivered in lecture format. Define what an ontology is,
                    provide examples, and introduce the idea of competency questions in the context
                    of domain modeling methodology.</lcDelivery>
            </lcInterventionItem>
            <lcInterventionItem>
                <lcLearnStrat>Participants will use inductive reasoning to develop a set of
                    competency questions for a domain ontology about library information
                    resources.</lcLearnStrat>
                <lcPlanObjective>They will define the scope and requirements of the ontology and
                    identify key concepts and terminology.</lcPlanObjective>
                <lcAssessment>The activity will be assessed through group discussion and
                    reflection.</lcAssessment>
                <lcDelivery>Participants will work in groups of four to five people. They will
                    brainstorm competency questions, write them on Post-it notes, and organize the
                    questions into meaningful groups.</lcDelivery>
            </lcInterventionItem>
        </lcIntervention>

    </learningPlanbody>
</learningPlan>
